
A group is a set with a binary operation that is associative, identity (unless its the empty group, thanks Luna), inverses, closed.

A permutation is a bijection from a set to itself. It's like a shuffle.
$$f(x):\mathbb{Z} \to \mathbb{Z} \vert f(x) = x+1$$

A **permutation group** is a group whos elements are permutations (i.e. every element is a function that shuffles a set of objects) and the operation is the composing of them.
> Note: if you're doing GAP most permutation groups are finite.

```
 gap> s8 := Group( (1,2), (1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8) );
    Group([ (1,2), (1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8) ])
```

In gap groups are stored by a **generating set** (for a group this is a subset of a group such that every element of a group can be constructed by those elements using the group operation).  

`(1,2)` and `(1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8)` in this statement are a the elements of a size 2 generating set which generate the group that is output. In actuality the group has 40,000 (8!) elements so this is a very compact way of writing it.

the s8 means that this is the group of all permutations on 8 points. It is a standard theorem of group theory that it is generated by these two elements.

Permutations are written in [[Disjoint Cycle Notation]].

In disjoint cycle notation `(1,2) * (1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8) = (1,3,4,5,6,7,8) (2)`

By multiplying the above permutations like they're factors and you're generating new numbers you can discover all the elements of s8.
Ex: `(1,2) * (1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8) * (1,2)^2` generates a new permutation.

Q: Can you write a permutation in two different ways in disjoint cycle notation?
> Yes, for example: `(1,2,3)^-1 = (3,2,1) = (1,3,2)`
> They are the same because the starting point of a cycle is arbitrary, what matters is that all the same qnumbers are cycled through.

